## 2026-05-06

This is the official start of the project. To start, I defined the base specifications of the CPU (see the CPU_Specification document for reference). The first part of designing this CPU is creating a high-level functional simulator that abstracts away and simulates the behaviour of the CPU (see the Simulator_Notes document for more details). To summarize, I am creating a very simple 32-bit single cycle RISC-V CPU, without pipelining. For the time being, instruction memory and data memory are separated into ROM and RAM, respectively. \
Today, I defined header files for the RAM, ROM, CPU, and entire system, in the C++ simulator.

## 2026-05-14

Today I went back to complete the implementations of the ROM and RAM modules. Part of this involved creating a new header file, brvc_arch.h, with the arch namespace. This contains architecture-level constants. The ROM/RAM read and write methods were also renamed to Read/WriteByte and Read/WriteWord, mostly in case the architecture widths and sizing change if/when I eventually transition to a 64-bit CPU with RV64I. This might not be necessary in the long run, and using explicit sizes in the function names might actually be better, but that's a decision for later. It's becoming very clear that designing for flexibility and modularity in the early stages is very important, so that I can make changes and adjust the project scope as I continue. Failing to plan this out now, and failing to structure the project flexibly, might result in me needing to rewrite the entire simulator if I expand to 64-bits, add pipelining, add caching, etc. This is part of the reason why it took me around 3 hours to define the ROM and RAM modules, despite their simplicity; most of that involved high-level design and project organization for simplifying future work.